https://github.com/eguefif/rust_learning
tech: Rust
# Rust Mastery Learning Plan

This project started as a question on Claude. I was struggling to understand an article about Alias XOR mutability. I asked Claude if writing an async runtime would help me understand this concept. Apparently, it does not. 

I asked what could be a better project. As a teacher, I know that we cannot learn something if we don't have the prerequisites. I kept asking until I filled the gap between my current knowledge and what I aimed for. I ended up with a complete plan toward Rust mastery. It's composed of projects and book references. 

This is a generative AI plan. One could think this is not reliable. Here comes the best part. It is my job to check if the plan is good or not and to improve it. This work of analyzing what the plan is with regard to my experience is the most beneficial aspect of this project. In the end, I learned Rust in a way that will last.

## Goals

I created this project to learn six skills:
* Iterator in Rust
* Parsing
* Memory allocation
* Smart Pointers
* Asynchronous programming in Rust
* Concurrency in Rust

## Spotlights

For what I have done so far, the JSON parser was very interesting. It's not my first time doing a JSON parser, but this time I managed to do it with a simple and easy to use interface.

## Current Status
The iterator part is done. The JSON parser is almost done. I still have to write the serialization logic.

It's on pause while I am working on Advent of Code 2025 in Rust.

## Lessons Learned

Writing the iterator struct, I learned about lifetime management. The collect-like logic taught me about generics, lifetimes and associated types.
